[IMP] Helpdesk: Reporting 17 (#9209)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/overview/reports.rst

Reporting
=========

.. |SLA| replace:: :abbr:`SLA (Service Level Agreement)`
.. |SLAs| replace:: :abbr:`SLAs (Service Level Agreements)`

> Odoo *Helpdesk* features reports that provide the opportunity to confirm if customer expectations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports in Odoo *Helpdesk* provide the opportunity to confirm if customer expectations
```

> Reports in Odoo *Helpdesk* provide the opportunity to confirm if customer expectations are being
> met, manage employee workloads, and identify areas for improvement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reports in Odoo *Helpdesk* provide the opportunity to manage employee workloads, identify areas for
improvement, and confirm if customer expectations are being met.
```
Optional reworking of the same sentence just to enhance the overall flow of it a bit more. Totally your call, though. 👍

Available reports
=================

Details about the reports available in Odoo *Helpdesk* can be found below. To view the different

> reports, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Reporting`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reports, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Reporting`, and choose to open reports for the
following: :guilabel:`Tickets Analysis`, :guilabel:`SLA Status Analysis`, or :guilabel:`Customer
Ratings`.
```

> Tickets Analysis

Reviewer: In the UI, it's spelled "Tickets", but I'm wondering if it's a Belgium mispelling? It doesn't sound like correct grammar, so I'd confirm with someone, or submit a bug report :joy:

----------------

The *Tickets Analysis* report (:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Reporting --> Tickets Analysis`)
provides an overview of every customer support ticket in the database.

> This report is useful in identifying where teams are spending the most time, and helps determine if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This report is useful for identifying where teams are spending the most time, and helps determine if
```

menu:

- :guilabel:`Average Hours to Respond`: average number of working hours between a message sent from
  the customer and the response from the support team. *This does not include messages sent when
  the ticket was in a folded stage.*
- :guilabel:`Hours Open`: number of hours between the date the ticket was created and the closed

>   date. If there is no closed date on the ticket, the current date is used. **This measure is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  date. If there is no closed date on the ticket, the current date is used. **This measure is not
```
since the previous definition (and other ones after) seem to use *italics* and not **bold**, do you think changing this last sentence to *italics* would be best to make things appear more uniform? Or, do you think the **bold** formatting is necessary for the message that's being delivered. Just something for you to consider during your revisions. Thanks! 👍

Author: I do want to keep this different just to make sure there is emphasis on when measures are specific to working hours (and therefore follow the working calendar) and when they aren't, since I think that can be a bit confusing for helpdesk.
If there is a ticket that has been "open" for 24 hours, that is tracking time when the team is off the clock. But if you just want to see how long the team is actively working on a ticket, you would select "Hours to close", because that is only going to show the "working hours", so it would not include off work time. (I hope this clears things up).

  specific to working hours.**
- :guilabel:`Hours Spent`: number of *Timesheet* hours logged on a ticket. *This
  measure is only available if Timesheets are enabled on a team, and the current user has the access
  rights to view them.*
- :guilabel:`Hours to Assign`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was created and
  when it was assigned to a team member.
- :guilabel:`Hours to Close`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was created and
  the date it was closed.
- :guilabel:`Hours to First Response`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was
  received and the date on which the first message was sent. *This does not include email sent
  automatically when a ticket reaches a stage.*
- :guilabel:`Hours until SLA Deadline`: number of working hours remaining to reach the last
  |SLA| deadline on a ticket.

> - :guilabel:`Rating /5`: number value assigned to the rating received from a customer (Dissatisfied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Rating /5`: number out of five to represent customer feedback (Dissatisfied
```

  Okay/Neutral = 3, Satisfied = 5).

> - :guilabel:`Remaining Hours on SO`: hours remaining on a linked sales order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Remaining Hours on SO`: hours remaining on a linked sales order.
```

  the customer and the response from the support team. *This does not include messages sent when
  the ticket was in a folded stage.*
- :guilabel:`Hours Open`: number of hours between the date the ticket was created and the closed
  date. If there is no closed date on the ticket, the current date is used. **This measure is not
  specific to working hours.**
- :guilabel:`Hours Spent`: number of *Timesheet* hours logged on a ticket. *This
  measure is only available if Timesheets are enabled on a team, and the current user has the access
  rights to view them.*
- :guilabel:`Hours to Assign`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was created and
  when it was assigned to a team member.
- :guilabel:`Hours to Close`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was created and
  the date it was closed.
- :guilabel:`Hours to First Response`: number of working hours between the date the ticket was
  received and the date on which the first message was sent. *This does not include email sent
  automatically when a ticket reaches a stage.*
- :guilabel:`Hours until SLA Deadline`: number of working hours remaining to reach the last |SLA|
  deadline on a ticket.

> - :guilabel:`Rating /5`: number out of five to represent customer feedback (Dissatisfied = 1,

Reviewer 3: The measure in the UI has parentheses around "/5"
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Rating (/5)`: number out of five to represent customer feedback (Dissatisfied = 1,
```

SLA Status Analysis
-------------------

The *SLA Status Analysis* report (:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Reporting --> SLA Status
Analysis`) :ref:`analyzes the performance <helpdesk/analyze-sla-performance>` of individual SLA
(Service Level Agreement) policies.

By default, this report is filtered to show the number of |SLAs| failed, in progress, and the number

> that have been successful. The results are grouped by team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that have been successful. The results are grouped by teams.
```

To change the measures used for the report that is currently displayed, or to add more, click the
:guilabel:`Measures` button, and select one or more options from the drop-down menu:

- :guilabel:`Number of SLA Failed`: number of tickets that have failed at least one |SLA|.

> - :guilabel:`Rating (/5)`: number valued assigned to the rating received from a customer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Rating (/5)`: number valued representing customer feedback
```

>    On the rating's details page, select the :guilabel:`Visible Internally Only` option to hide the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   On the rating's details page, tick the :guilabel:`Visible Internally Only` checkbox to hide the
```

The *pivot* view presents data in an interactive manner. All three *Helpdesk* reports are available
in pivot view.

> The pivot view can be accessed on any report by selecting the :guilabel:`grid icon` at the top-right

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pivot view can be accessed on any report by selecting the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(grid)` icon at the top-right
```

of the screen.

.. image:: reports/pivot-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the SLA status analysis report in Odoo Helpdesk.

To add a group to a row or column to the pivot view, click the :icon:`fa-plus-square`
:guilabel:`(plus)` icon next to :guilabel:`Total`, and then select one of the groups. To remove one,

> click the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o` :guilabel:`(minus)` icon and de-select the appropriate option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
click the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o` :guilabel:`(minus)` icon, and de-select the appropriate option.
```

The *pivot* view presents data in an interactive manner. All three *Helpdesk* reports are available
in pivot view.

The pivot view can be accessed on any report by selecting the :icon:`oi-view-pivot`
:guilabel:`(pivot)` icon at the top-right of the screen.

.. image:: reports/pivot-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the SLA status analysis report in Odoo Helpdesk.

To add a group to a row or column to the pivot view, click the :icon:`fa-plus-square`
:guilabel:`(plus)` icon next to :guilabel:`Total`, and then select one of the groups. To remove one,
click the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o` :guilabel:`(minus)` icon, and de-select the appropriate option.

Graph view
----------

The *graph* view presents data in either a *bar*, *line*, or *pie* chart.

> Switch to the graph view by selecting the :icon:`fa-line-chart` :guilabel:`(line chart)` icon at
> the top-right of the screen. To switch between the different charts, select the *related icon* at
> the top-left of the chart, while in graph view.

Reviewer 3: The graph view uses the `fa-area-chart` icon, not the `fa-line-chart` :)
```suggestion
Switch to the graph view by selecting the :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(area chart)` icon at the
top-right of the screen. To switch between the different charts, select the *related icon* at the
top-left of the chart, while in graph view.
```

.. tip::
   Both the *bar chart* and *line chart* can utilize the *stacked* view option. This presents two
   or more groups of data on top of each other, instead of next to each other, making it easier to
   compare data.

Save and share a favorite search
--------------------------------

The *Favorites* feature found on *Helpdesk* reports allows users to save their most commonly used
filters without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.

To create and save new *Favorites* configuration on a report, follow the steps below:

#. Set the necessary parameters using the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By` and
   :guilabel:`Measures` options.

> #. Click the :guilabel:`🔻(triangle pointed down)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to

Reviewer: Here is an opportunity to use the new :icon: to represent this symbol !

   open the drop-down menu.
#. Under the :guilabel:`Favorites` heading, click :guilabel:`Save current search`.
#. If desired, enter a new name for the report.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Default Filter` checkbox to have these filter settings automatically
   displayed when the report is opened. Otherwise, leave it blank.
#. Tick the  :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to make this filter configuration available to all other

>    database users. If this box is not checked, only the user who creates the filter can access it.

Reviewer: This doc is really useful, and it's great that you're fleshing out all of these reports and fields. As a helpdesk beginner though, I'd like to share some of my first impressions.

When looking at a pivot table like the one in the SLA Status Analysis report, I have to admit, I was a bit lost. It might be my lack of industry knowledge, though!

So, maybe in a followup PR, when you get a chance, you could include some example graphs and give us a few pointers on what numbers we should be paying attention to. Like, what's considered a red flag in terms of ticket start/finish times?

Just a thought!

Author: Thats a good point, I do talk a bit about this report in the SLA doc (which I will add a link to) but I can update that section to provide some additional metrics guidelines :+1:

.. tip::
   Both the *bar chart* and *line chart* can utilize the *stacked* view option. This presents two
   or more groups of data on top of each other, instead of next to each other, making it easier to

>    compare data.While viewing either a bar chart or line chart, click the :icon:`fa-database`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   compare data. While viewing either a bar chart or line chart, click the :icon:`fa-database`
```

>    :guilabel:`(stacked)` icon to toggle stacked view on or off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`(stacked)` icon to toggle the stacked view option on or off.
```

Save and share a favorite search
--------------------------------

The *Favorites* feature found on *Helpdesk* reports allows users to save their most commonly used

> filters without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filters, without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.
```

> To create and save new *Favorites* configuration on a report, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create and save a new *Favorites* configuration on a report, follow the steps below:
```

#. Set the necessary parameters using the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By` and
   :guilabel:`Measures` options.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to
   open the drop-down menu.
#. Under the :guilabel:`Favorites` heading, click :guilabel:`Save current search`.
#. If desired, enter a new name for the report.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Default Filter` checkbox to have these filter settings automatically
   displayed when the report is opened. Otherwise, leave it blank.

> #. Tick the  :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to make this filter configuration available to all other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to make this filter configuration available to all other
```

>    database users. If this box is not checked, only the user who creates the filter can access it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   database users. If this checkbox is not ticked, only the user who creates the filter can access it.
```
